---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Authorize a payment
**Authorize** end-point use **only** for the transactions with **3DS cards**.

You will need to send a HTTP request via POST method to the Bank **(Card holder Bank)** to authorize a transaction.
To authorize a transaction, request should sent to authentication URL of card holder bank.

## Authorize payment request structure  

```
{
  "paReq": "string",
  "backUrl": "string"
}
```

## What is paReq?
The **paReq** is an unique code per transaction, generated by NETOPIA Payments.
You have the **paReq** token in **start end-point response**

## What is backUrl?
The Card holder Bank will be authorize the transaction and will communicate to your application via **backUrl**
So practic, the **backUrl** is a public URL on your application/website who **listen** to card holder banks.

The generated token (**paRes**) will be send to your **backUrl**

## How to know if transaction request is with a 3DS card
Ofcourse from response of **start end-point** we get many usefull information about the payment request.
On start end-point response we have **customerAction**->**type**. if the value is **Authentication3D** meanse , this specific transaction need to be authorize to be complited

Also, easily we have **error code** and **payment status**. Any transaction with 3DS card will have **error code 100** and **payment status 15** in start end-point response.

please, check **[Errors & Statuses](../../docs/start/start-Error)** for get more information


## How to get "authentication URL" of Card holder Bank
From start end-point response on **customerAction**->**url** you can get **authentication URL** of card holder bank


## Authorize payment URL for DEMO/Sandbox
```
https://secure.sandbox.netopia-payments.com/sandbox/authorize
```